doc: Understanding RisingWave Macros (#11942)
risingwavelabs/risingwave: src/README.md

[state-store]: https://github.com/risingwavelabs/risingwave/blob/main/docs/state-store-overview.md
[meta-service]: https://github.com/risingwavelabs/risingwave/blob/main/docs/meta-service.md
[risedev]: https://github.com/risingwavelabs/risingwave/tree/main/src/risedevtool

## Understanding RisingWave Macros

RisingWave uses a lot of macros to simplify development.
You may choose the read to macro definition directly,

> but something complementary / easier is to use `cargo expand`

Reviewer: even more handy is https://rust-analyzer.github.io/manual.html#expand-macro-recursively

<img width="1352" alt="image" src="https://github.com/risingwavelabs/risingwave/assets/37948597/ecd113d3-4cc3-4d21-a04b-89d5ca9150bd">

Author: Thanks!

to expand the macro and read the expanded code.

### Example 1: declarative macro `commit_meta!()`

For instance, within `meta::manager::catalog::CatalogManager::finish_create_table_procedure`
there's a call to the macro `commit_meta!()`.

To understand it, first I dump the expanded code to a file:

```bash
cargo expand -p risingwave_meta > meta.rs
```

Then I search for the function call `finish_create_table_procedure` in my editor,
and compare the original code with the expanded code in `meta.rs`.

From there I can see that it does the following, followed by some instrumentation code which can be ignored:
```text
async {
    tables.apply_to_txn(&mut trx)?;
    self.env.meta_store().txn(trx).await?;
    tables.commit();
    MetaResult::Ok(())
}.instrument(/* ... */)
```

### Example 2: Procedural macro `aggregate`

The other example would be the `#[aggregate]` procedural macro.

To understand it, first I dump the expanded code to a file:

```bash
cargo expand -p risingwave_expr > expr.rs
```

Then we identify the `#[aggregate]` macro call to examine. In this case it's `string_agg`.

> First, we know that Rust merges the individual modules into one big file, namespaced by the module name.

Reviewer 2: I guess the merge is done by `cargo expand`?
```suggestion
First, we know that `cargo expand` merges the individual modules into one big file, namespaced by the module name.
```

In this case `string_agg` is its own module, so we can search for `mod string_agg` in the `expr.rs` we just generated.

We can see that the expanded `string_agg` now also contains `extern fn string_agg_varchar_varchar_varchar`.

Reading the code we understand now that it does the following:
1. Register it to a global registry for aggregates.
2. "it" here refers to an `AggFuncSig`, whose definition we can checkout.

> 3. Of note is that it will generate an anonymous struct which implements the `AggFunc` trait.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Of note is that it will generate an anonymous struct which implements the `AggregateFunction` trait.
```
